Integrated Genotype, Phenotype and Environment Aquisition, Monitoring and Assocaition
=====================================================================================

To keep pace with a changing world, the crop science and environmental ecology
must together improve the efficency of the biosphere, while conserving natural
environments. Both fields must integrate the latest methodlogical advances to
accurately and rapidly find populations that perform optimally under a changing
climate. The TraitCapture project, lead by the Borevitz lab, aims to create an
end-to-en, integrated, plant genomics, phenomics and environment platform.

The SpectralPhenoClimatron provides reproducable advanced control of plant
growth conditions, capable of simulating regional climates and with integrated
high-throughput phenotyping. PlantScreen can provide high throughput measues of
advance, hyper-spectral pheotypes including measurements of photosythesis and
temperature. Heirarchical genomic analyses from Genotyping-by-Sequencing to low
and high coverage whole-genome and epigenome sequecing are provided within
TraitCapture. Computational image analysis provides quantitative, real-time
metrics of plant growth and behaviour on plants grown under dynamic
environments.  Statsitcal assocaition of genotype, phenotype, and enironment
enables QTL maping, GWAS and related studies, incuding modeling environmental
interactions. Functional structural plant models allow analysis and prediction
of performance of genetic combinations under future or diverse climates.
Underlying all anayses is end-to-end integrated management of sample tracking
and data generation and analysis, allowing reproducable research and
open-source data.

The TraitCapture project is funded and many components have already been
implemented. TraitCapture is released under the GNU GPL, and contributions are
encouraged.
